I can't particularly think of specific incidents when stereotype threat has affected me, but growing up, I was acutely aware of my differences. I am half Korean and half Jewish, and I grew up in an upper middle class community. My school was predominantly Jewish, but every Saturday, I went to "Korean school," in which I spent the day with other Korean kids doing some extra schoolwork. On Sundays I would go to a Korean church. I have always looked ethnically ambiguous, and could never find a peer group that accepted me. I had my Korean friends, and my Jewish friends, but I was always treated like an outsider in each. As a result I didn't identify very strongly with my ethnicity, especially considering I didn't have any friends I could relate it with. 

I think the socioeconomic status of my family and community had a larger effect, however. Just about my whole school had the expectation that their parents would pay for college, myself included. After going through college, and my experience with people after, I realize that I had and have an altered perception of money. I view any monetary and academic success (until college ended) as a function of the expectations of the society I grew up around. I see many of my peers following in the footsteps of their parents, which has very many positive stereotype threats. I have been hoping to escape stereotype threats, so that I can begin to take some credit for my successes.

I think stereotype threat is much more common in America than other countries. When I lived in Korea, a very monocultural country, I was very aware that there were stereotypes for Americans. I just wasn't sure what they were, so they did not have much effect on me. This seemed to be the case for my American peers. Growing up, we are aware of the different stereotypes in America. I think that all an individual can do is to understand how these stereotypes come into existance, and that being born into a particular environment with a particular set of genes is random. Identifying strongly with these arbitrary factors is what allows stereotype threat to have its effect.

If I suspect someone else feeling stereotype threat, I would just encourage them to try their best. I do not know if there is anything I can do about stereotype threats. I will simply try my best to look at every individual as an individual. I will continue to try to create my own model of the world, and dismiss the ideas of race and socioeconomic status that were imprinted on me.