This blog question got me very excited. I love exploring different value systems, and I think it is probably the number one factor in determining how and why a person is the way they are. The list of values had so many options that resonated with me, but if I had to choose only one, I think it would be growth. 

In regards to stereotype threat, a person cannot choose who they are or where they come from, but if a person always strives to grow, it is almost certain that their situation will improve. This topic is very important because my life greatly improved once I began to focus on growth. I wanted to better every aspect of myself, and while in day to day life, progress may have seemed frustratingly slow, upon reflection, it is so obvious how much the growth has compounded. In general, I believe I try to live up to this value as often as I remember. Almost all my decisions are made with the idea and hope for growth.

The last topic that I can think of that someone asked me for advice about was on my close friend's relationship with his girlfriend. Her parents bring up marriage frequently, and he is very close to her. He told me that he was thinking about it, but had many uncertanties. My advice to him, while very cliche, was the same advice I usually give to people when they ask me for advice. It was simply follow your heart, and follow it without fear. I'm sure I used words that didn't make it sound so lame, but I think that is the key to happiness and success. Fears and concerns must be acknowledged, but if they are driving a decision, that decision is coming from a weak version of oneself. The confident self, almost always makes the smarter decision, and that is the person one should strive to be at all times. This stronger version, acknowledges fears, but believes that he or she can handle them if the desire for a particular goal is genuine enough. I tend not to give advice beyond that when it comes to big life decisions. Only one person can know if his or her desire is real enough and important enough to take the risks that accompany it, but if it is, it is best to go at it with 100%.

I feel empowered when I think of my values and without a doubt, I believe it can help me mediate stereotype threat. I often have periods of time when I feel depressed or anxious. My work, relationships, and health suffer as a result. This only happens, however, when I am not living in alignment with my values. The tasks I am doing are out of habit, or a feeling of necessity, rather than for the purpose of growth. When I am feeling down at DBC, I think stepping back and meditating on the beliefs I want to perpetuate will realign me to my values, and help me confront my problems as opposed to sulk and shy away from them.